Alleviate Stress with Three Deep Breaths Guided Meditation Script Alleviate Stress with Three Deep Breaths. This script guides the listener to adopt a simple stress release technique – that is, taking three deep breaths. It also includes positive affirmations that can help to shift the subconscious mind. [voice at the beginning of the session is serious yet calm and soothing, speaking at a slower yet comfortable speed] (words that are underlined should be emphasized and said with great passion) Begin by taking a deep breath and hold it for 5 seconds…(pause for 5 seconds)…exhale and relax…(pause for 5 seconds)...take another deep breath, as deep as you can, and hold it, count for 5 seconds…(pause for 5 seconds) and as you exhale just imagine blowing out all of your stress…(pause for 5 seconds)...take a third deep breath and hold it…(pause for 5 seconds)...and as you exhale you blow out any stress you’ve been holding on to, saying to yourself “relax now” [pause for 3 seconds, speaking now with confidence and at a normal pace of speech] This is your new solution to stress. Whenever you become stressed in the future, you simply take 3 fully in and deep breaths, holding it at the top of the inhalation for 5 seconds, and when you exhale, blow out any stresses that you feel. And on the third breath as you exhale you simply say to yourself, relax now. [Pause for 5 seconds] [speaking slowly with a soothing and gentle voice] [Body Scan Induction] Begin by slowly blinking your eyes, and with each number I say, blink once. (pause for 3 seconds in between each number) 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, and 0. Allow your eyes to gently close, and when you do this you feel a wave of relaxation sweep over you. [speaking even slower now] Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com4 of 22 Now I’d like for you to focus on the sensations at the top of your head. Just notice how the very top of your head feels. [Pause for 5 seconds] And now let your focus move down to your eyes. Just notice how your eyes feel and ask them to relax even more. The little movement in your eyes is called rapid eve movement and is completely normal. These small eye movements allow for you to feel calm. Notice how the back of your head feels against the surface that it is touching. How heavy does your head feel right now? [Pause for 5 seconds] Let your focus move to your nose, and feel the slight sensations of the air moving in and out with your breath. When you breathe in, imagine that you are being filled with calmness, and when you breathe out, imagine your body feels heavy and deeply relaxed. Very good. [Pause for 5 seconds] Now focus on your ears. Notice how they feel, and what they hear around you. Try to hear every single noise. When sounds come into your ears they act as little waves of relaxation taking you even deeper. [Pause for 5 seconds] Notice the sound of my voice and how soothing and motherly it is. From here forward you can only hear my voice guiding you. All other sounds passing though only take you deeper into a state of relaxation. Now focus on your mouth, how does it feel?And what do you notice? Can you sense the flavor of something you recently tasted? Perhaps you can imagine biting into a fresh slice of lemon, and you notice how your mouth waters. Very good. [Pause for 5 seconds] And move your focus down now to your neck, and if there is any tension just ask it to release a little more. Notice how your neck feels right now, and just feel all of the sensations in your neck. Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com[Pause for 5 seconds] 5 of 22 Now focus on your shoulders and move your attention slowly going down each arm, down all the way to each fingertip. What are your fingertips touching right now? Feel the sensations on your fingertips…. (pause for 3 seconds) Nice. [Pause for 5 seconds] Allow your focus to go to your chest, relaxing this area, as well as your upper back.And if you notice any tension, just ask it nicely to release just a little. Now imagine you are focusing on your heart, and feeling it beating strongly, supporting you. Relax your heart and notice how good it feels to do so. [Pause for 5 seconds] And now focus on your lungs. Feel them gently expanding and contracting with your breath, delivering oxygen to your body. [Pause for 5 seconds] Allow your focus to move down your vital organs and digestive system. Just notice your belly and how it feels, just observe it working and digesting effortlessly for you. Now notice your lower back and how it is pressing against the surface you are on, and if you feel any tension just say, please relax just a little more. [Pause for 5 seconds] Focus now on your pelvis and hips and notice any sensations you are having there. This takes you even deeper into a state of relaxation. Allowing your focus to move down each leg now, slowly relaxing those as well. Your legs have been taking you so many places over the years and they deserve to fully relax. [Pause for 5 seconds] Notice this wonderful wave of relaxation moving down to your knees and down your lower legs, all the way to your feet and the very tip of each toe… (pause for 3 seconds) Good, you are doing so well. [Pause for 5 seconds] Now that you have relaxed your body so well, I am going to count down from 10, and with each descending number your conscious mind will relax even more so, letting go of any beliefs that hold you back from your goal. Imagine that you are standing at the top of a set of stairs and when I begin counting, you will walk down the stairs. Ok (pause 3 seconds between each number) 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, and zero. Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com6 of 22 [Pause for 5 seconds] Good, it‘s natural that your conscious mind give less and less importance to the words that I’m saying, allowing your subconscious mind to be present right now. [pause for 3 seconds] From now on you choose to be relaxed…(pause for 3 seconds) You choose to be calm…(pause for 3 seconds)… You choose to be in control of all you do because your health is very important to you. [pause for 3 seconds] Remember that it is natural for you to be healthy and happy.It is unnatural for you to have sickness and misery. [Pause for 5 seconds] Now hear yourself saying: (lower the tone of voice and speak very slowly now, with great confidence). Each day, in every way, I get better and better. [pause for 5 seconds] In order to make change I challenge myself. [pause for 5 seconds] Change is not comfortable, in fact it is inconvenient, so if I feel comfortable with the change I am making, I am probably not extending myself enough. [pause for 5 seconds] When I have a negative thought, I acknowledge that I feel this way and then I release it. When another negative thought arises, I catch it quickly and I say with confidence, I acknowledge that part of me feels this way, but this thought does not help me right now. [pause for 5 seconds] Each day, in every way I get better and better. [pause for 5 seconds] Whenever I am presented with feelings of stress, I know my breath is there to soothe me and guide me into relaxation. [pause for 5 seconds] Every single day, I become more aware of all the good things going on in my community, and in the world around me. [pause for 5 seconds] When I feel that darkness is surrounding me, I know that the way to see light is to take 3 deep breaths, relaxing my mind and body by doing so. [pause for 5 seconds] Each day, in every way I get better and better. [pause for 5 seconds] In order to make great change, I challenge my thoughts. [pause for 5 seconds] From now on I challenge every single negative and unproductive thought that arises. [pause for 5 seconds, pace of speech returns to normal and is spoken with seriousness] Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com7 of 22 From this point forward, whenever you find yourself having negative unproductive thoughts, you will immediately say to yourself the word STOP….. Let me repeat that to you so that it is perfectly clear…. whenever you find yourself having negative unproductive thoughts you will immediately say to yourself the word STOP, and as soon as you say the word STOP you'll find that the negative thoughts you were having will just disappear. This gives you the opportunity to start a new positive thought process. [pause for 5 seconds, speech is now positive and uplifting, supporting the listener] How do you feel? Notice how you feel right now and take great note of exactly how you feel, right now. Good, now let’s come to conscious awareness, bringing back everything that you learned today for the better. [speech when counting is always very slow] 1, slowly coming back to the present moment 2, (pause for 3 seconds) 3, (pause for 3 seconds) 4, feeling fresh, new energy coming in as you breathe 5, (pause for 3 seconds) 6, (pause for 3 seconds) 7, bringing back all that you have learned today 8, (pause for 3 seconds) 9, almost there And 10. (pause for 3 seconds) Welcome back. Good…(pause for 3 seconds) [pause for 5 seconds, speech is now positive and uplifting, again supporting the listener] You are doing very powerful work by practicing this meditation daily, without skipping a day, for at least 21 consecutive days. [pause for 3 seconds] This is the way you change your life for the better. [pause for 3 seconds] Thank you, and good job today. Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com8 of 22 Self-Love Meditation Guided Meditation Script Self-Love Meditation. A powerful practice that can ease a racing mind. By drawing our attention to our innermost self, we find our source of inner peace and acceptance. Stressful thoughts gently diminish as we gain the peace required to move forward with grace. If we do not allow the natural love for ourselves to be expressed, love does not reveal its beauty very often throughout each day of our lives. Get into a nice relaxing position, removing any distractions for the duration of this session. Take the very first action in self love RIGHT NOW. Your ability to breathe at will, in all different kinds of ways. Our breath has been there literally our entire lives, changing as needed to the demand of exciting circumstances and flowing effortlessly when we are resting. Taking multiple full and deep breaths every day is proven to change our bodies and minds for the better. Take in 5 full and deep breaths, holding it for a moment at the top, and naturally exhaling. If we do not allow the natural love for ourselves to be expressed, love does not reveal its beauty very often throughout each day of our lives. Get into a nice relaxing position, removing any distractions for the duration of this session. Take the very first action in self love RIGHT NOW. Your ability to breathe at will, in all different kinds of ways. Our breath has been there literally our entire lives, changing as needed to the demand of exciting circumstances and flowing effortlessly when we are resting. Taking multiple full and deep breaths every day is proven to change our bodies and minds for the better. Take in 5 full and deep breaths, holding it for a moment at the top, and naturally exhaling. 1 inhale a nice a big breath, expanding your belly and lungs as much as you can…..Hold it….and exhale gently with relief. Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com9 of 22 2 inhaling fresh oxygen that will be supplied to your blood stream….holding it to soak it in….and exhaling without any effort. 3 inhale feeling rejuvenated and invigorated by this breathing….hold it….and exhale easily. 4 inhale noticing how breathing fully comes naturally for you….pausing to soak it in….and exhale any tension or worry. And 5 inhaling fully is an act of self-love….pausing to feel this Love….and exhale into complete relaxation. Let your breath flow at a pace without any effort from you now. Good, by doing this you a proving you are capable of self-love. Deep breathing increases the supply of oxygen to your brain and stimulates the parasympathetic nervous system, sometimes referred to as the ‘rest and digest’ system. By breathing deeply and often, you are commanding your body to rest, which relaxes and rejuvenates you… This is self-love in it’s simplest form, that anyone can do at anytime of the day. Now let’s honor our self by relaxing the mind even further. Notice now how your thoughts are rising in your mind, one after the other. See them come, and see them go…. Some thoughts linger for some time, and some thoughts only come for a split second… If you can really focus, you will notice even smaller thoughts, such as describing the world around you, or labeling the things in your surroundings. Let your hearing become super alert now, and try to focus on some sounds around you… Maybe you can hear the sound of your breath………. Can you hear nature nearby?......... Or perhaps cars passing by….…..or people talking with each other……….just go from sound to sound, focusing on only one at a time…….. Now stop focusing on any sound in particular and just allow all of the noises around you to come in equally, and when you hear them, they almost act as tiny waves of relaxation, calming your mind. Good… Your mind relaxes when you activate your senses on command. Let’s use the power of your amazing visualization abilities to induce self love. Begin to imagine yourself full of an abundance of self-love. Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com10 of 22 2 inhaling fresh oxygen that will be supplied to your blood stream….holding it to soak it in….and exhaling without any effort. 3 inhale feeling rejuvenated and invigorated by this breathing….hold it….and exhale easily. 4 inhale noticing how breathing fully comes naturally for you….pausing to soak it in….and exhale any tension or worry. And 5 inhaling fully is an act of self-love….pausing to feel this Love….and exhale into complete relaxation. Let your breath flow at a pace without any effort from you now. Good, by doing this you a proving you are capable of self-love. Deep breathing increases the supply of oxygen to your brain and stimulates the parasympathetic nervous system, sometimes referred to as the ‘rest and digest’ system. By breathing deeply and often, you are commanding your body to rest, which relaxes and rejuvenates you… This is self-love in it’s simplest form, that anyone can do at anytime of the day. Now let’s honor our self by relaxing the mind even further. Notice now how your thoughts are rising in your mind, one after the other. See them come, and see them go…. Some thoughts linger for some time, and some thoughts only come for a split second… If you can really focus, you will notice even smaller thoughts, such as describing the world around you, or labeling the things in your surroundings. Let your hearing become super alert now, and try to focus on some sounds around you… Maybe you can hear the sound of your breath………. Can you hear nature nearby?......... Or perhaps cars passing by….…..or people talking with each other……….just go from sound to sound, focusing on only one at a time…….. Now stop focusing on any sound in particular and just allow all of the noises around you to come in equally, and when you hear them, they almost act as tiny waves of relaxation, calming your mind. Good… Your mind relaxes when you activate your senses on command. Let’s use the power of your amazing visualization abilities to induce self love. Begin to imagine yourself full of an abundance of self-love. Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com11 of 22 See yourself now, choosing healthy foods, and cooking at home so you know all of the ingredients you are putting into your body… Vividly see yourself eating well… When you eat well, see yourself enjoy these moments, and you feel the nutrition that these choices bring you… Imagine now you have a strong will to avoid junk foods and unhealthy drinks… See yourself in great detail confidently saying no all these things, you feel very proud now, when you avoid eating something unhealthy. Good. Eating healthy is an essential component in self-love. Another form of self-love is observing your mental chatter… In order to have great self love, you must expand the good things you feel about yourself and challenge any negative thoughts as soon as they arise. So hear yourself saying, “When I fully love myself, I am able to fully love others. Deciding to love myself is a wonderful agreement. Great! Each day, I allow my love for myself grow more and more. I am worthy of love and I honor the joy that comes with it. Deciding to love myself unconditionally, no matter what happens feels wonderful. I deserve love and self respect. My self-esteem grows along with my self-loveI love and accept everything about myselfI completely and always love myself. Today I love myself even more than yesterday. Truly loving myself is easy for me. The more I love myself, the better my entire health. I love every moment of my existence. Every part of me that makes me who I am is encompassed with love. I have unconditional love within me that overflows in abundance to those around me.” Now gently opening your eyes, take a fresh breath and know that whenever you Love yourself, you will find Love. Thank you. Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com12 of 22 Dropping the Suitcases of Worries and Regrets Guided Meditation Script Tackling a more difficult subject- Dropping the Suitcases of Worries and Regrets, this meditation script for anxiety includes a powerful visualization for releasing some of the weight we carry. It is suitable for adults and is best guided by someone with professional or interpersonal experience with these topics. So, to help you reduce anxiety, start by taking a moment to relax your body.. soften any unnecessary tension in your belly and shoulder, and find a posture that feels both relaxed and alert, Now close your eyes or look downwards and rest your hands in an easy effortless way. Take a few moments to scan your awareness through the sensations of your body, and wherever possible, soften and release obvious areas of physical tension. Aware of your body, your body breathing, your chest rising and falling with each breath. And now imagine standing in the street outside of your house with two heavy suitcases and know that one of those suitcases is full of worries about the future, and the other suitcase, know that it is full of regrets about the past. Take a moment standing there in the street holding these two heavy suitcases and reflect about each one. Reflect about the future, how it will come on its own accord whenever it comes and that most of what we worry about will never happen. Standing out there in the street, reflect about the past, the other heavy suitcase. Consider how the past cannot be changed. All we can do in the present is to learn from it, put in whatever corrections make sense, become more skillful, become a better person, and move on. Standing there in the street, feeling the weight of these suitcases, and absorbing the wisdom of your own reflections right now, make a conscious decision. Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com13 of 22 Do you want to drop the suitcase of worry about the future? And if so, simply drop it…. simply drop it…. Then, standing there in the street with the other suitcase so heavy about the past, make a conscious decision. Do you want to drop it? And if so, just drop it…. just drop it…. And as soon as you have dropped the two suitcases, walk into your home, and take your seat right where you are, and plop down, so relaxed, like someone coming home from a long trip, dropping suitcases, and just relaxing, rested in the present, just breathing, resting in the natural wellbeing of the parasympathetic nervous system, resting in the fundamental well-being of awareness itself, awareness which does not worry or regret, resting as if this is meaningful for you. Allow yourself to simply rest. Feeling a sense of peace, of joy, of well being. A natural happiness. Always your true home. Without carrying heavy suitcases of worries about the future, or full of regrets about the past. Simply rest herein your body right now with total relaxation throughout your body and mind… Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com14 of 22 Body Scan, Advanced Guided Meditation Script This body scan advanced meditation script is a simple guide for leading a body awareness practice. It includes notes on recommended length of pauses, as well as reflection questions. At the end of the practice, where appropriate, you can open up conversation for participants to share their experience. Let's begin by taking a moment to allow your body to settle into a comfortable position (2 seconds). You may close your eyes or keep them slightly open allowing the spine to lift (2 seconds) the shoulders to soften (5 seconds). Today we will practice a body scan (5 seconds). Taking a full breath in (2 seconds) and a long breath out (10 seconds). Begin by bringing your attention into your body (5 seconds). Notice the feeling of the weight of your body on the chair, or the floor, wherever you are (10 seconds). And as you breathe notice how your chest and abdomen expand to allow the air to enter your lungs (5 seconds). What sensations are you aware of? (5 seconds) And as you exhale bring awareness to the stillness and notice the sense of relaxing more deeply (20 seconds) Now bring your attention to the top of your head, noticing any sensations in the scalp (2 seconds), down the back of the head (2 seconds), to the sides (2 seconds), to the face (2 seconds). Notice your jaw (2 seconds) if you're holding any tension in your jaw (2 seconds). Let your face be soft (2 seconds), relax the muscles around your eyes and your mouth (5 seconds). Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com15 of 22 Breathing in (2 seconds) breathing out (20 seconds). Now notice your neck and your throat (2 seconds). Let them be soft (10 seconds) Notice your shoulders and arms, feel any sensations as you allow your tension to move from your shoulders down to your upper arms, the elbow, to your forearms, wrists, hands, and fingers (15 seconds). Noticing any tightness, any temperature sensations (5 seconds) Noticing what the fabric of your clothing feels like against your skin (8 seconds). Continuing to breathe in (2 seconds) and to breath out (15 seconds). Now bring your attention to your chest and abdomen (2 seconds), feeling the movement in your chest as you breathe (10 seconds). Bringing your attention to your stomach, noticing if your stomach is tense or tight (2 seconds) and just letting it soften (10 seconds). Noticing the upper back and the lower back (5 seconds) If you're holding any tension there also letting that release (20 seconds). Now continue traveling down to your legs (2 seconds), your thighs (2 seconds), your knees (2 seconds), calf, and shin (2 seconds), your ankles (2 seconds), and finally bringing your attention to your feet (5 seconds). Noticing the sensations of your feet (2 seconds) against the floor ground (10 seconds). Noticing any weight, (2 seconds) sense of temperature, (2 seconds) feeling of energy perhaps present in the feet (30 seconds). And as you continue breathing in and breathing out, now noticing the whole body (2 seconds) from the top of your head (2 seconds) all the way down to your toes (15 seconds). Staying with a sense of the whole body for a few more breaths (30 seconds). And as we close continue remaining aware of your body as best as you can as you finish with a full deep breath in (2 seconds) and a long deep breath out (5 seconds) *ding* (15 seconds) Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com16 of 22 Bringing Your Mind Back from Thoughts Guided Meditation Script Bringing Your Mind Back From Thoughts. This meditation script guides listeners to liken their thoughts to snowflakes. It encourages a shift in one’s relationship to the stream of thoughts that moves through them. Consider exploring this script to help your students or clients to witness their inner world with greater clarity. Unhooking from Thoughts Thoughts are part of everyone’s human experience. You don’t need to push them away in order to practice — learning to bring your mind back from its thoughts is the practice. But how do you let go of the thoughts once they’ve pulled you in? This exercise offers one way to “unhook” yourself from those thoughts and simply let them be. Without pushing the thoughts away or denying their presence, you can be aware of the thinking mind while remaining unattached. Settle into a seated posture and close the eyes. Notice the energy in the mind and body. As you come into a period of mindfulness practice, you may notice the energy of your day resting in the mind and body. The mind may be active, the body may feel worked up, or you might notice a bit of lingering anxiety. Think of a shaken snow globe, with all that energy swirling around. As you rest, the little snowflakes fall gently to the ground. Think of yourself as a snow globe, and every snowflake as a thought. In this way, watch as each and every snowflake falls to the ground. Do not force yourself to calm down; let it happen slowly and organically. After a minute or so, bring your attention to the breath in the body. Choose one spot where the breath is felt easily. Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com17 of 22 It may be the center of the chest, the abdomen, the shoulders, or the nostrils. Observe the physical sensation of the body breathing. Observing the breath for a few minutes, bring the mind back when it wanders. Stick with the snow globe visualization, and as thoughts begin to rise up, observe as they slowly settle back down. After a couple of minutes of focusing on the breath, open your awareness to include your thoughts and your general mental state. Instead of returning to the breath when the mind wanders, notice what the mind is doing. You may notice yourself planning, fantasizing, “figuring out,” or replaying past experiences. Whatever you observe the mind doing, let it be.When you recognize a thought, what happens? Try not to encourage the thought, but don’t push it away, either. Allow it to be, and allow it to go on its own. See if you can watch the passing of the thought as it follows its natural trajectory and leaves the mind. Return to the breath and patiently wait until another thought arises. Notice it, watch the thought, and come back to the breath again. Continue with mindfulness of the breath and the thoughts. Notice when you’re lost in thought or when the mind wanders for some time. If self-judgment arises, notice that just as you would any other thought. You can always return to the breath for a few moments to ground yourself back into the practice. Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com18 of 22 Breathe Away Anxious Thoughts Guided Meditation Script Breathe Away Anxious Thoughts. This soothing meditation script guides listeners to use their breath as a primary tool for relaxation. It has us witness negative thoughts diminishing gradually, freeing us from the hold they have over us. It is a beautiful script to be read aloud to a group. Hello, and welcome to this meditation to relieve depression and anxious thoughts. Make sure you are in a comfortable position and you will not be disturbed for the duration of this session. Bring your focus to your breath, and really pay attention to how your lungs expand and contract when you inhale and exhale. Let your breath flow how ever it wants to right now. Notice your jaw, and if you feel any tension here, just notice it, don’t try to change anything. Now breathe into the sensations in your jaw, and as you exhale, allow it to release a little. Inhale again, imagine that you are breathing in new life, and when you exhale, let all fear completely fade. Take another breath in, and when you exhale, feel yourself let go of any worries. Notice how relaxed you are becoming right now. Let another breath come in naturally imagining a bright future, and as you let it go, notice how depression eases and fades. A gentle wave of relaxation sweeps over you as you breathe in and out. Allow your breath to flow naturally now, let yourself feel calm and peaceful. You deserve this wonderful feeling of serenity. You are open now to receive new thoughts, and you open up even more with each breath you take to new and fresh energy. Notice how new ideas begin to present themselves to you. Bring up feelings of abundance, as if you have so much that your cup pours over for others to enjoy the abundance you have created. Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com19 of 22 Imagine that you are energized and have a zeal for life. Even if this is not true of your present self, imagine it vividly, and with as much detail as you can. See yourself full of energy and optimism. You can imagine it as if you are watching a movie of yourself if this helps, but see the colors brightly, and watch yourself full of ambition, taking steps towards achievement. Stay with your breath and allow your intentions to remain positive. Even if you don’t feel positive in this moment, you can imagine what being joyful is like. So, breathe into this joy you are creating, and notice how you are consciously shifting any depressed or anxious thoughts right now, into peaceful feelings instead, by following your breath. Breathe deeply and let your exhale completely relax you. Any thoughts that previously held you back become smaller and smaller. Watch negative thoughts diminish, little by little, as if you are riding away in a car and these negative thoughts are sitting along the roadside, shrinking into the distance as you ride away with ease. As you see them go, you are freed from their grip. If you have any more negative thoughts rise, drop them off on the side of the road, by any creative means that arises, and ride away, watching them grow smaller until they are consumed by the horizon. Allow yourself a few moments to simply be. Notice and feel changes from this moment right now, and the difference between how you felt before you began this meditation. Your new thoughts find a new home within your inner being. Return your focus to your breath for a few moments.In your own time, whenever you are ready, slowly open your eyes. Good. Commend yourself for making these steps towards a better life. Accept this wonderful change to your new life. Take as much time as you’d like to just be in gratitude for several moments. Thank you. Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com20 of 22 Awareness of Each of the Five Senses Guided Meditation Script Awareness of each of the five senses is a guided meditation script that brings mindfulness to the senses. Practicing regularly heightens the senses further. When you are in the throes of an overwhelming emotion, it can hook you in completely. Mindfulness practice helps you notice when this happens. When you do notice you are feeling overwhelmed, you can use this exercise to bring yourself back to the here and now. It takes just a few minutes and extends an invitation to be present. Leaving the eyes open, notice five things you can see. You can say them out loud or silently in your head. With each of the five sights, pause to take them in completely. Next, notice four things you can feel in the body. Note them out loud or in your head, and rest your attention with each sensation for a few deep breaths. Name Note Finally, find three things you can hear. Try to choose three different sounds, not the same noise three times. two things you can smell. If you cannot seem to smell two things in this moment, feel free to move somewhere to smell something more closely. one thing you can taste. It may be the leftover taste of a meal, your toothpaste, or just your breath. If you cannot connect with one in the moment, note a taste you enjoy in general. Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com21 of 22 Focusing on the Colors You See Guided Meditation Script Focusing On The Colors You See. This simple though effective mindfulness script is an exercise that can be practiced by kids of all ages. By inviting children to pay greater attention to the colors they see, we enhance their ability to mindfully observe the world around them. This is a simple mindfulness script for kids that can be explored as an introductory practice. Color Your World The world is full of different colors, and you can practice mindfulness by paying attention to which ones you are seeing in the present moment. Seeing is a different experience from tuning in to the breath or body, but it offers the same opportunity to be deeply present. We rely heavily on our sense of sight, making it a powerful tool for the cultivation of mindfulness. You can do this practice anywhere. You may be sitting at your desk, taking a ride on the bus, or walking down the street. Wherever you decide to do this practice, set aside 10 minutes to dedicate yourself to it. Arrive in the present moment. Take a few mindful breaths, feel the body where it is, and allow your energy to settle. Pick one color to focus on. You may try starting with red one day, and work your way through the traditional rainbow spectrum on each subsequent day. Find one thing you can see that is the color you have picked. Look at it with beginner’s mind, as if you have never seen this thing before. Note what it is and its size and shape. Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided meditation scripts, e-books and more at: MindfulnessExercises.com22 of 22 After a few moments, look for something else that is this color. Observe this object in the same way. Continuing with this practice, notice when your mind wanders off. You can always return to the sensation of breathing, using the breath as the anchor for your awareness. You may find it helpful to mentally note exactly what you are seeing. For example, a red stop sign doesn’t get labeled “red stop sign”; it becomes “red, octagon, writing, metal.” When 10 minutes have passed, allow the eyes to close for a moment. Take a few deep breaths, let go of the practice, and return to your daily life. Download more mindfulness worksheets, guided medita